the situation of my divorce and my
relationship with my daughter is
actually something that people want to
know about but they feel uncomfortable
asking me about and that's peculiar
because for me it's not something I'm
uncomfortable talking about really not
at all and this comes up to my mind most
strikingly with the people who are now
in the gray area between being just fans
of the channel and really being personal
friends of mine because they're quite a
few people now the mid watch the channel
for two years four years where it's been
and to a significant extent they know me
but every so often they they kind of
mention look they say something like
look man I don't really know what's
going on with your marriage and your
situation their daughter they say look
man I only know what [ __ ] your YouTube
channel and then I also get kind of
positive feedback with people where I
mention it or give some kind of update
and people say oh wow you know I you
know I'm really glad to hear that or
they really appreciate knowing because
apparently something they want to know
about but they never asked themself so
no I'm I'm hard to offend that way but
sure every so often people make you know
presumptuous or denigrating or insulting
statement and I'm not impossible to
offend put it that way the purpose of
this video is not to explain the dry
legal details of the current situation
although some of that will be mentioned
in passing and it's not to talk about
like my relationship with Mac's wife or
really even my feelings in my
perspective on it um I really want to
talk about the kind of unfolding
identity crisis that I see in my
daughter's life and obviously I don't
just have an outsider's perspective I
had the perspective of someone who with
real detachment is trying to interpret
what a four year old a five year old and
what six year old is telling me and to
some extent the things she's telling me
or things she's really programmed to say
by her mother but only to some extent
and you never know to what extent that
is so he has pause on a much lighter
note as an example of this after one of
our visits with Alexandra I got a series
of angry angry emails from my ex-wife
because she felt Alexandra was coming
home and making
inspirational statements about veganism
that we have we appropriate it to her
that wasn't the case at all on that trip
you know
Alexander really had her own interest in
veganism and she was very plucky about
it and to give an example this is real
kind of five-year-old reasoning but not
someone reasonable she went back and
said to her mother that if she ate a
healthy vegan diet she could eat
broccoli every day but then it would be
fine if she ate chocolate-covered
bananas this isn't what I taught her but
you know she's putting the pieces
together you know the chocolate-covered
bananas that in France a very small
amount of chocolate very thin coating
it's mostly just a banana it's a lot
healthier than most candy and desserts
people give their kids
I don't know kid you got it all figured
out yeah so you know but that that
wasn't something we'd sent her home to
believe it's something she had figured
out for herself as a theory she made up
in her own mind
we didn't even hear that from her she
went back and told her mom proudly that
she'd figured this out about veganism so
you know in another more imaginative
example from that same trip was that
she'd kind of invented this whole story
in her mind about Mister Rogers the
children's TV actor that Mister Rogers
from children's television and questions
about his health and why did he have a
heart attack
if it's like my ex-wife sends me these
angry emails as if I as if I'd program
my dogs that it was like look it's
coming straight out of her imagination
my daughter is an imaginative
strong-willed kid and she she makes up
her own material on this I did not know
doesn't come from me so it can be
misleading to assume that your daughter
is repeating stuff she's been told but
both in terms of what she knew and what
she did not know what information she's
been presented with and what she's been
deprived of we've gotten to see over the
last two years approximately how my
daughter's perspective on Who I am has
changed and one relatively material one
relatively tangible element of this
story is the extent to
which my ex-wife has just deprived my
daughter of access to the toys that I've
given her so over these years I sent her
a lot of toys I'm not gonna get into
details but on this last trip my
daughter was really confirming it had
come up before in the past that I'd
given these toys to her or sent these
toys to her and then she'd never see
them again she either just see them when
she was with me or in some cases that
were sent in to put it in the mail and
then they would disappear entirely and
there was one toy where she really
thought with him of that she loved it so
much you want to key but you want to
keep playing with it and her mother kept
coming with pretexts to take it away or
give it away to charity so this very
strange struggle to erase my presence
from my daughter's life erase the memory
of me or raise questions about me by
physically removing any toys any
reminders of Who I am from their lives
so that that's one palpable element now
a little bit more impalpable is this the
first time we saw my daughter that was
the least emotionally complex but also
maybe jarring and troubling its own way
because she literally did not know who I
was so there were a lot of strange and
emotionally memorable moments where she
said things like I love you you guys are
really great to me like you know she
really had a great time playing with us
and going to the parking one at the
beach we did normal kids stuff going to
the ferris wheel this kind of thing she
said you know I love you I love you guys
you know she even said things like I
wish you were my real parents but it's
sad I wish I wish I could meet my real
father you know my father who came to
see me in Germany there was this distant
memory of me coming to see her when she
was in Germany and you know we tried to
explain to her what it didn't just come
up once no no I I actually am your real
father I am the same man who who came to
see you in Germany now most generously
you could suppose that she was confused
about this just because nobody nobody
told but there was just silence about me
that she wasn't actively coached to
think that I was not her
but again as this period of two years
goes past in the later visits it seems
on the contrary that the darker truth is
she's really been actively told that
that I'm not her father
and now finally that that someone else
is in terms of what is her name and and
what is her identity in what have you so
in the first couple of visits Alexander
was really tremendously positive in
tremendously enthusiastic about Melissa
as her new mom very very enthusiastic
about Melissa and you know little kids
are shallow look look I'm sure part of
the reason why she's enthusiastic about
me being her dad or the presence of
giving her the toys and the video games
and going to the beach and when she
spends time with us we don't have to
force her to go to school we don't
really have to force her to do anything
she doesn't want to do we can just have
fun so there's a real contrast between
weekday parenting and holiday parenting
or vacation parenting that way I know we
have a kind of unfair advantage in that
sense you know in terms of how she
perceives us as as parents that were
were nothing but but fun and laughs in
good times and maybe when she's with her
other family she's forced to do some
chores or forced to get ready for school
or that kind of thing but yeah little
kids are shallow a lot of her enthusiasm
about Melissa was because Melissa was so
beautiful and she told us that every day
she she but she was aware in relation to
Melissa she was aware that Melissa was
not her genetic mother but and she one
of the ways we heard this was that she
said she wishes that Melissa was missed
she actually said things like I wish
melissa was my DNA mommy I wish I had
your DNA I wish you were my real mommy I
want it you know so she said this kind
of thing and again we not only did we
not coach her to say this but we really
cautioned her we said look you know you
don't want to hurt the feelings of your
your biological mother you know you
don't want to say these things you know
and again as nicely as possible we said
no you know Melissa loves you we're here
to play with you and I fell with you but
no we know Melissa is not your real
mother
you know she's just molasses she's my
girlfriend whatever let's say and we
talked about that in future also in the
first two visits you know she did say
that she wanted me to marry my ex-wife I
think just the first two visits where
she talked about that and it was very
cute and harmless minute that didn't
seem to be psychologically burdened but
she just said that she loved me so much
and and she thought that I should get
back together with my ex-wife and you
know she came with some creative ideas
about who Melissa should marry that we
should all stay together or the four of
us or something but you know so she had
some ideas with that she was really
positive she want us around but in the
first two visits that was a difficult
process of getting her to recognize that
I was her father at all
so these are spaced out by approximately
six months each of these these four
visits we made together so I thought
we'd hit a kind of harmonious mutual
understanding
but the third visit of the four which is
why the fourth visit was so
disappointing so Melissa can you grab my
mom on the third visit it seemed to me
she really understood that I was her
biological father that her her mother
you know has in effect married another
man they're not legally married but she
has this boyfriend who lives in the
apartment with her and that that man you
know I guess helps her get ready for
school and does other you know parental
things from day to day she seemed to
really clearly understand yeah on the
third trip there didn't seem to be a lot
of anxiety about that one way or the
other from her she seemed to be really
kind of confident and clear-headed about
that I guess the other thing that went
on in the background to this was related
to her fascination with the death of mr.
Rogers she had really just figured out
what death was due to the death of my
father so she had met my father and she
was really aware that my father had died
and was very interested in that that
seemed to be the first time she figured
out the meaning of the word
and that inspired her to think a lot
about how many grandparents she has you
remember once that went into a bakery I
was carrying her on my on my shoulders
and she was sitting sitting on my back
and she announced probably to everyone
in the bakery how many parents she has
nobody grandparents yes that's he but
this is her regarding the divorce
positively in the sense that this
extended her her extended family so yeah
it was really shocking and disappointing
when on the fourth visit all of that
progress seemed have been reversed and
what we now seem to be encountering and
again there's a kind of dotted line
linking this to the issue that she was
given a bicycle she never saw the
bicycle she was given an electric
musical keyboard electrical piano she
never saw it even once and the gifts
we'd given her that she did see briefly
while she was with us she'd then never
seen again they were taking away from
her as soon as we we'd left and her
struggles over this one toy that that
she managed to hold on to despite that
and she began that trip with us telling
us in no uncertain terms that she was
not my daughter that she never had been
my daughter she denied that my that her
name was the same as my name what was
the name I'd given her so that's been
another long slow controversy boiling
only on the fourth trip did she insist
that her last name is not the same as as
my name which legally it is by the way
um but on the three trips before that
there was a lot of tension surrounding
her first name
now whether there are any ill intentions
my ex-wife has given her a first name an
informal nickname or first name that
she's been taught to regard as her real
first name and it is not and I'll just
say it's it's a Russian first name or
it's an Eastern European sound
first name and she's now being told that
she's gonna learn Bulgarian moved to
Bulgaria and become Bulgarian and she's
been given
she's believes or she espouses that she
has this Bulgarian Eastern European
sounding last name again for my
outsider's perspective it doesn't sound
much different from a Russian and last
name
these are Slavic last names but the
first name the first name that predates
my ex-wife's relationship with the
Bulgarian man it seems to go back a long
long way mmm not to put too fine a point
on it so maybe they're from about the
same period I don't know so this
business of giving her a different name
giving her a different identity and then
apparently you know her mother is
coaching her through or rehearsing with
her this transition to a point of view
of rejecting me as her father and
claiming that someone else is her father
only now the plot twist is that since
the fourth trip just in the last couple
of months my ex-wife dramatically
decided that she would rip up the
custody agreement that we have so the
custody agreement the word agreement
nobody agreed to anything we have a
court order we have a judge's judgment
that tells us when I have custody and
what to do and someone it's a writ from
a judge it wasn't agreed to but the two
sides it was created in a totally
hostile situation and it governs our
separation not our divorce
as I've mentioned repeatedly my ex-wife
refuses to divorce me so she's directly
refused to receive paperwork she's
refused in various ways and again in in
the whole history of this case her
lawyers have never once been willing to
negotiate with my lawyers legally it
would be called they've never made a
proposal to my lawyers
they've never discussed terms of words
they've never been willing to proceed
with a divorce neither amiably Noora
Noora hostile divorce in france there
were two tracts for divorce one
cooperative
not so cooperative so we have a
situation now in which my ex-wife has
said she doesn't care about the the
court order so to speak that she is not
gonna allow me to speak to my daughter
by Skype every two weeks and she is not
gonna allow me to see my daughter to
have custody of my daughter once every
six months and there has been no
explanation for this she just says this
is her new position and I can talk to
her lawyer wishes to say my lawyer can
talk to her lawyer and indeed yet more
money as being spent on lawyers now than
ever before
so that will slowly start to unravel and
unwind the other clue to this mystery is
that allegedly and I could only say
allegedly my ex-wife is now having a
second child or at this date I can say
most likely she already has a second
child that she became pregnant
presumably with her long-term boyfriend
who is Bulgarian position European and
we know about this entirely from my
daughter that my daughter told us
excitedly that she's gonna have a new
baby brother and she told us all kinds
of details that a young child would not
make up about where the baby's gonna be
sleeping and this this kind of thing I
would point out also that she said some
of this in front of her adoptive father
my my ex-wife's new new boyfriend and he
looked incredibly upset by her
mentioning it he was downcast oh yeah
you weren't you weren't there the first
time that I've served melissa was you
just weren't standing right there or
elsewhere in the train station that when
that happened so I I got the impression
that if anything they had tried to coach
her not to say that enough to talk about
it and my ex-wife indeed has never been
mentioned to me remitted to me nor has
my ex-wife's boyfriend discussed it with
me it has been suggested to me that
there are legal reasons as to why that
might be my ex-wife is
refused to divorce me and that creates
certain legal difficulties under French
law
I think legally I'm the father of that
child legally that's my second child
until we get paperwork saying it isn't a
lot of countries don't like that within
the United States I think it varies from
state to state but if you're married to
someone and get pregnant and have a baby
it's presumed to be the legally wedded
husbands baby until you take steps not
to you so guys get divorced before you
have chosen else and then the other
problem is legally it means that she's
guilty of adultery and that can matter
in court
yes it's ridiculous that you've been
separated for five years and legally
something's considered adultery when was
she supposed to live in celibacy all
this time but that is the hot water she
has put herself into by refusing to
divorce me refusing to have any kind of
amiable resolution and progress so look
um in closing I got a question on
patreon that didn't insult me or upset
me at all somebody asking what my
perspective is in the divorce in this
respect I was asking me basically how do
you feel about the fact that your
ex-wife is shacked up with someone else
that she has a new new boyfriend or new
new informal husband and I feel
completely positively about that
I didn't divorce my wife or swear I
didn't try to get divorce I didn't
initiate the divorce let's be clear I
dumped her and even though legal
statements in court stayed that she
didn't leave me I made the decision to
dump her but I didn't dump her so that I
could control her life forever it no
that's ridiculous I know a lot of guys
have that kind of attitude I don't want
to you know be the person who vets or
approves or controls or her love life
fundamentally be like well if she gets a
new job I'm happy for her taking on the
life she again earlier you know when she
wanted to move to Germany I would have
been positive and supportive of that you
know if she wants to move to a new
country you get a new job training
things have a new husband I would have
every reason to be positively inclined
and encouraging about that the problem
is precisely the extent to which my
ex-wife has made every
of this process combative dishonest
spiteful counterproductive its she's
done so many things legally emotionally
personally that are that are simply
unforgivable she's done so many things
that serve no purpose except to harm me
and that obviously are gonna harm my
daughter and from my perspective they
have now created a very very strange
identity crisis from a daughter every
home I'm aware of them having including
my ex mother-in-law's home I found it
striking that they had my daughter's
full legal name like on the doorbell and
on the post box so in the first trip I
was invited to go there by the way I was
good to go there to pick up my daughter
and drop off my daughter and on the
fourth trip again I went to pick up some
toys briefly saw-max mother-in-law so I
just mentioned it's not obvious I was
invited to go to these places these
these different times and of course the
different times I've been sending checks
for child support and that kind of thing
so I don't know it's if it's so that she
can receive legal benefits from the
French government or why that is it's
unusual to have a child's full name and
earlier it was really a baby the full
name the full legal name of a baby on
your your post office box you know where
you received mail but that's what she's
been doing so you get this full name
it's my name it was my name I kafir and
my last name next to max wife's name and
my ex mr. Claus name I whoa okay so
that's that's always been striking to me
and earlier in the divorce my ex-wife
was trying to blackmail me into signing
a document that would give her the legal
right to use my family name so without
going to the US I just always seemed
bizarre to me like why would you have to
force me you know it's just weird
what are you doing so that was not the
only thing she was trying to blackmail
me into but I should flesh out if I'm
gonna say blackmail so for example all
of this I can prove in court all ii
prove just by showing the email she
wrote one of the modes of blackmail was
of inviting me to see my daughter in
germany
and then telling me no she wouldn't let
me see my daughter in Germany unless I
signed a series of legal forms that
among other things would give up anyway
to see my daughter but in the list of
demands she wanted me to sign was also
starting over the right to use this name
very strange so she's made a transition
from that to this new fantastical mode
of I guess trying to take revenge
against me of giving my daughter a new
first name a new family name and
coaching my daughter to believe that
she's not my daughter at all so look all
these things aren't forgivable I said
many years ago in this channel
short-term thinking starts to resemble
evil it's incredibly blind
I mean long-term I was this gonna work
out for you how can you possibly win how
can this turn out well how can this turn
out well for her relationship with her
own daughter with my daughter's
relationship with me with my
relationship with her what you really
want in a divorce is what I was offering
her that's step one you want someone
who's positively motivated to do
co-parenting for one thing that's a free
babysitter someone who's positively
motivated to contribute your life
financially in terms of time effort
someone who's gonna be whatever whether
I gets once a month or a couple times a
year someone who's gonna you know
collaborate with you someone who's gonna
talk to you positively about the plans
to the future and what's going on
you know you want someone who's
positively motivated in contributing and
that was what I was from day one in this
divorce that was what I would I had to
offer and instead she's done everything
she could to create an invidious
situation invidious is really the word
and I I really have no invidious
feelings on my end if she wants to get
married to someone else
if she wants to have a child with
someone else from my perspective the
only thing she owes me is completing the
legal paperwork for the divorce but I
guess the reason why she doesn't want to
do that is that it would take away from
her forever the little bit of a gray
area
the
a bit of wiggle room she has to do
exactly what she's doing now and that is
to stab me in the back over my right to
see my daughter my right to have custody
my right to even talk to her by Skype
the little bit of wiggle room she's been
enjoying the legal privileges she's been
abusing by a court process in France
that began by ruling in my absence not
informing me intentionally concealing
from me that the court process would
begin to know in this world guys there's
no justice but you know there's kindness
there's detachment there's respect
there's dignity and each and every one
of us has to struggle to to live a life
of Dayton II despite a justice system in
which there is simply no interest in
justice at all